= ActionArgs

Controller action arguments parameterizer for Rails 3 + Ruby 1.9


== What is this?

ActionArgs is a Rails 3 plugin that extends your controller action methods to simply look like a general Ruby method with meaningful parameters.


== The Controllers

Having the following controller code:

  class HogeController < ApplicationController
    def fuga(piyo)
      render :text => piyo
    end
  end

Hitting "/hoge/fuga?piyo=foo" will call fuga('foo') and output 'foo'.
So, you do never need to touch the ugly +params+ Hash to get the request parameters.


== The Scaffold Generator

ActionArgs provides a custom scaffold controller generator that overwrites the default scaffold generator.
Thus, by hitting the following command:

  % rails g scaffold user name:string

The following beautiful controller code will be generated:

  # coding: utf-8

  class UsersController < ApplicationController
    # GET /users
    def index
      @users = User.all
    end

    # GET /users/1
    def show(id)
      @user = User.find(id)
    end

    # GET /users/new
    def new
      @user = User.new
    end

    # GET /users/1/edit
    def edit(id)
      @user = User.find(id)
    end

    # POST /users
    def create(user)
      @user = User.new(user)

      if @user.save
        redirect_to @user, :notice => 'User was successfully created.'
      else
        render :action => 'new'
      end
    end

    # PUT /users/1
    def update(id, user)
      @user = User.find(id)

      if @user.update_attributes(user)
        redirect_to @user, :notice => 'User was successfully updated.'
      else
        render :action => 'edit'
      end
    end

    # DELETE /users/1
    def destroy(id)
      @user = User.find(id)
      @user.destroy

      redirect_to users_url
    end
  end

You may notice that
* There are no globalish +params+ referrence
* It's quite easy to comprehend what's the actual input value for each action
* You may write the unit test code as if the actions are just normal Ruby methods


== Supported versions

* Ruby 1.9.2, 1.9.3 (trunk)

* Rails 3.0.x, 3.1 (edge)


== Installation

Put this line in your Gemfile:
  gem 'action_args'

Then bundle:
  % bundle


== Notes

=== Plain Old Action Methods

Of courese you still can use both Merbish style and plain old Rails style action methods even if this plugin is loaded. +params+ parameter is still alive as well. That means, this plugin won't break any existing controller API.

=== Argument Naming Convention

Each action method parameter name corresponds to +params+ key name. For example, the following beautifully written nested show action works perfectly (this might not be a very good example of effective querying, but that's another story).

  Rails.application.routes.draw do
    resources :authors do
      resources :books
    end
  end

  class BooksController < ApplicationController
    # GET /authors/:author_id/books/:id
    def show(author_id, id)
      @book = Author.find(author_id).books.find(id)
    end
    ...
  end


== Todo

* specs
* other Ruby implementations


== Conclusion

Ruby 1.9 on Rails 3 FTW!


== Copyright

Copyright (c) 2011 Asakusa.rb. See LICENSE.txt for further details.
